Have you ever lied so badly that you have to tell the truth? That is what happens in Edgar Allan Poe’s classic story, “The Tell-Tale Heart”. Now is the narrator trustworthy while narrating the story? There are three criteria to determine if the narrator is reliable: do they understand what’s happening, is their interpretation bizarre, and are they trustworthy. The evidence overwhelmingly shows the narrator is unreliable.
	In the 15th paragraph, the speaker is talking to the police about being suspected of murdering the old man. and thinks he is safe when he isn't. This shows that the narrator is untrustworthy. The text states, “I smiled, -for what had I to fear?” (15). This text shows his misunderstanding of the events, if he didn't have to fear the cops, why would they be at his front door trying to interrogate him? This shows that he clearly doesn't understand what is going on. Another reason he doesn't understand what is going on is that by the end of his conversation with the police, he thought that they were satisfied. “The officers were satisfied. My manner had convinced them.” (16), while he thought that he was in the clear, the police were all talking, which normally means that they think he might be guilty.
	Secondly, the narrator had a bizarre interpretation of events, in the story, the narrator thought the police were making fun of him. In the text the narrator states, “‘Villians!’ I shrieked, ‘dissemble no more! I admit the deed!- tear up the planks!-here, here!-It is the beating of his hideous heart” (18). He thought the police were torturing him, so he confessed to the crime. Another piece of evidence to support this claim is, “‘’They were making a mockery of my horror!- this I thought.” (17). This shows that he interpreted the dialogue with the police wrong. The police were probably talking about other stuff while the narrator fully believes they are mocking him. 
	Finally, the narrator does not understand what is happening. He shows this from his hallucinations of sounds or as the narrator calls it “over-acuteness of the senses.” The first piece of evidence to support this claim is that “Much such a sound as a watch makes when enveloped in cotton -I gasped for breath-And yet the officers hear it not” (17). This happens while he is trying to prevent himself from telling the police about the murder. The evidence shows that the narrator believes that there is a sound not there, which can show that he doesn't understand what is real and fake. The second piece of evidence to present is about the narrator while killing the old man. In the text it says,  “I knew that sound well, too. It was the beating of the old man’s heart.” (7). The narrator starts to hear the man's heart from across the room, which means the narrator doesn't understand his senses well.
	An unreliable narrator isn't trustworthy. In “The Tell-Tale Heart”, Edgar Allan Poe wanted readers to learn that sometimes you can always trust somebody. Why don’t narrators always tell the truth??
